1.What is DevOps?  
Ans:Devops is a process of improving the application delivery by ensuring automation,quality,continuous monitoring and testing.

2.Why DevOps?
Ans:In the past Decade to deploy a code from Devpolment to production includes System Admin(to build a server like VMware,openstack),Server Admin(Create an application server) and Build&release engineer(to deploy application on server)
While using DevOps we can deploy with less complexity.

3.What is SDLC?
Ans:the cost-effective and time-efficient process that development teams use to design and build high-quality software.
It has plan,define,design,build,test,deploy phases.
As as DevOps engineer focus should be on Build (code and push to git),Test (quality engineer test the code on the server),Deploy(deploying on the server).

4.What is server?
Ans:A server is a computer program or device that provides a service to another computer program and its user

5.Physical server and virtual server?
Ans:a physical server is a machine with a hard drive, CPU, processor, memory, and network connection to run programs and applications.
A virtual server is a software-based server that allows multiple virtual machines (VMs) to run simultaneously as computing resources are virtualized.

6.What is Hypervisor?
Ans: Hypervisor, also known as a virtual machine monitor, is a process that creates and runs virtual machines (VMs).

7.When you use terform --In hyrid cloud
  AWS CLI,API,CFT      --In single cloud platform

8.How to SSH in ubuntu:
  ssh ubuntu@ipadd
  ssh -i path ubuntu@ipadd
  chmod 600 pathtokeypair

9.AWS CLI:download
  aws configure-provide the secret id and access key,default region

10.What is OS?
Ans:Cascading medium between hardware and software.

11.Why linux not windows?
Ans:Free,open source,secure,Different distribution(ubuntu),Fast.

12.what is kernel?
Ans:It is heart of OS does device management
                          memory management
                          Process management
                          System handling

13.what is shell scripting?
Ans:Shell scripting is a text file with a list of commands to perform certain tasks.

14.what are bash,sh,ksh,dash?
Ans:previous dash and bash are linked together now some os are using bash as default

15. ./filename-open a file

16.List some of the commonly used shell commands ?
Ans: ls,mv,rm,touch,cat,vi,grep,mkdir,find,top,df,free

17.Write a simple shell script to list all process?
Ans:ps -ef | awk -F" "'{print &1}'  #F is feild seperator

18.Write a script to print only errors from a remote log?
Ans:curl website | grep error

19.Write a script to print number of "S" in Mississippi?
Ans: x=mississipi
     grep -o "s" << "$x" | wc -l  #wordcount

20. How will you debug the shell script?
Ans:set -x

21.What is crontab in Linux? Can you provide an example of usage?
Ans:Used to automate a daily task

22.How to open a read-only file?
Ans:vim -r file.txt

23.What is a difference between soft and hard link?
Ans:A symbolic or soft link is an actual link to the original file, whereas a hard link is a mirror copy of the original file.

24.What are some disadvantages of Shell scripting?
Ans:Execution speed is slow
    Errors are frequent and costly
    Not suited for the complex task
    Process is launched each time you execute.

25. Explain about a network troubleshooting utility?
Ans:Traeroute

26.How will you manage logs of a system that generate huge log files everyday?
Ans:logrotate

27.How will you sort list on names in a file ?
Ans:sort




